we all know that saving is important and
is something that we should be doing and
yet overall we're doing less and less of
it we know what we need to do the
question is how do we do it and that's
why I'm here to teach you your savings
behavior isn't a question of how smart
you are or how much willpower you have
the amount we save depends on the
environmental cues around us let me give
you an example we ran a study in which
in one group we showed people their
income on a monthly basis in another
group we showed people their income on a
weekly basis and what we found was the
people who saw their income on a weekly
basis we're able to budget better
throughout the month now it's important
to know that we didn't change how much
money people were receiving we just
changed the environment in which they
understood their income and
environmental cues like this have an
impact so I'm not gonna share tricks
with you that you already know I'm not
gonna tell you how to open up a savings
account or how to start saving for your
retirement what I am gonna share with
you is how to bridge this gap from your
intentions to save and your actions are
you ready here's number one harness the
power of pre commitment fundamentally we
think about ourselves in two different
ways our present self and our future
self in the future we're perfect in the
future we're gonna see for retirement
we're going to lose weight we're gonna
call our parents more but we oftentimes
forget that our future self is exactly
the same person as our present self we
know that one of the best times to save
is when you get your tax return so we
tried an AV toss in the first group we
texted people in early February
hopefully before they even filed for
their taxes and we asked them if get a
tax refund what percentage would you
like to save now this is a really hard
question they didn't know if they would
receive a tax refund or how much but we
asked a question anyway in the second
group we asked people right after they
received their refund
what percentage would you like to save
now here's what happened in that second
condition when people just received
their tax refund they wanted to save
about 17% of their tax refund but in the
condition when we asked people before
they even file their taxes savings rates
increase from 17% to 27% when we asked
in February why because you're
committing
for your future self and of course your
future self can save 27% these large
changes and savings behavior came from
the fact that we change the
decision-making environment we want you
to be able to harness that same power so
take a moment and think about the ways
in which you can sign up your future
self for something that you know today
will be a little bit hard sign up for an
app that lets you make savings decisions
in advance the trick is you have to have
that binding contract number two use
transition moments to your advantage we
did an experiment with a website that
helps older adults share their housing
we ran two ads on social media targeted
to the same population of 64 year olds
in one group we said hey you're getting
older are you ready for retirement how
sharing can help in a second group we
got a little bit more specific it said
you're 64 turning 65 are you ready for
retirement how sharing can help what
we're doing in that second group is
highlighting that a transition is
happening all of a sudden we saw
click-through rates and ultimately sign
up rates increase when we highlight that
in psychology we call this the Fresh
Start effect whether it's the start of a
new year or even a new season your
motivation to act increases so right now
put a meeting request on your calendar
for the day before your next birthday
identify the one financial thing you
most wanted to do and commit yourself to
it the third and final trick get a
handle on small frequent purchases we've
run a few different studies and found
that the number one purchase people say
they regret after bank fees is eating
out it's a frequent purchase we make
almost every day and is done by a
thousand cuts
here burrito there it adds up and
decreases our ability to save back when
I lived in New York City I looked at my
expenses and saw that I spent over
$2,000 on ride-sharing apps it was more
than my New York City right I've vowed
to make a change
in the next month I spent $2,000 again
no change because the information alone
didn't change my behavior I didn't
change my environment so now that I was
four thousand dollars in the hole at the
two things the first is that I unlinked
my credit card from my car sharing apps
instead I linked a debit card that only
had $300 a month if I needed more I had
to go through the whole process of
adding a new card and we know that every
click every barrier changes our behavior
we aren't machines we don't carry around
an abacus every day adding up what we're
spending in comparison to what we wanted
but what our brains are very good at is
counting up the number of times we've
done something so I gave myself a limit
I can only use ride-sharing apps three
times a week it forced me to ration my
travels I got a handle on my car sharing
expenses to the benefit of my husband
because of the environmental changes
that I did so get a handle on whatever
that purchases for you and change your
environment to make it harder to do so
those are my tips for you but I want you
to remember one thing as human beings we
can be irrational when it comes to
saving and spending and budgeting but
luckily we know this about ourselves and
we can predict how we'll act under
certain environments let's do that with
saving let's change our environment to
help our future selves
[Music]